README.md, before:

# localizejs-github-action

A Github Actions integration for Localize.js; use it to push the primary string file for your project and to pull your translated files.

## Inputs

## Input file
This action uses the LocalizeJS cli application which requires the input file to be named `language_code.json`. 

## `localize-api-key`

**Required** The Localize.js account API key

## `localize-project-id`

**Required** ID for the Localize.js project to translate

## `file-format`

The file format to use in all push and pull actions
Default: "SIMPLE_JSON"
Options:

- ANDROID_XML
- CSV
- GETTEXT_PO
- JSON
- IOS_STRINGS
- IOS_STRINGSDICT
- PO
- RESX
- SIMPLE_JSON (Works with i18next. Not supported by all project types.)
- XLIFF
- XML
- YAML
- YML

## `action`

**Required** The action to peform-- either 'push' or 'pull'

## `type`

The type of translation-- either 'phrase' or 'glossary'
Default: 'phrase'

## `langauges`

**Required** A comma separated list of desired langages. Langauges must first be enabled in the LocalizeJS project.

## `input-path`

**Required** The path to the input file. EG `AccountsFrontend/public/locales`. Path must be a folder containing a file named `en.json`

## `output-path`

**Required** The path to the desired output location. Should be a directory without the end slash. EG `AccountsFrontend/public/locales`

## `restructure-files`

If true output files will be moved and renamed to the file structure expected by i18next. EG `{output-path}/{language_code}/translations.json`

## Example usage

## Daily fetch workflow

```yml
name: Localization - Fetch strings
on:
  schedule:
    # * is a special character in YAML so you have to quote this string
    - cron: "0 0 * * *"
  workflow_dispatch:
jobs:
  fetch:
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest
    steps:
      - uses: actions/checkout@v2
      - uses: submittable/localizejs-github-action/.github/actions/localize-push-pull@main
        with:
          localize-api-key: ${{ secrets.LOCALIZE_API_KEY }}
          localize-project-id: [your-project-id]
          file-format: "SIMPLE_JSON"
          action: "pull"
          languages: "fr,es,haw,am,de,ru,cs,el,he,hu,km-KH,ko,lo,pl,vi,zh,zh-TW,ar,bs,fr-CA,hi,id,it,ja,lt,pa,so,th,uk,pt,sr-LA,tl,ht,hmn"
          input-path: "[path to the directory containing your input file]" # directory must contain en.json
          output-path: "[desired output path]" # path to directory without end slash. EG: `account-name/strings`
          restructure-files: true
      - name: Get current date
        id: date
        run: echo "::set-output name=date::$(date +'%Y-%m-%d')"
      - uses: gr2m/create-or-update-pull-request-action@v1
        env:
          GITHUB_TOKEN: ${{ secrets.GITHUB_TOKEN }}
        with:
          title: Localization string updates - ${{ steps.date.outputs.date }}
          body: Please review the updated string values, approve, and merge the PR.
          branch: localization-updates-${{ steps.date.outputs.date }}
          author: "github-actions[bot] <41898282+github-actions[bot]@users.noreply.github.com>"
          path: "strings/"
          commit-message: "Updating localized strings with new translations from Localize.js"
          labels: localization
```

## Example publish workflow

```yml
name: LocalizationPublishStrings
on:
  push:
    branches: [main]
  # Allows you to run this workflow manually from the Actions tab
  workflow_dispatch:
jobs:
  publish:
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest
    steps:
      - uses: actions/checkout@v2
      - uses: submittable/localizejs-github-action/.github/actions/localize-push-pull@main
        with:
          localize-api-key: ${{ secrets.LOCALIZE_API_KEY }}
          localize-project-id: [your-project-id]
          file-format: "SIMPLE_JSON"
          action: "push"
          languages: "fr,es,haw,am,de,ru,cs,el,he,hu,km-KH,ko,lo,pl,vi,zh,zh-TW,ar,bs,fr-CA,hi,id,it,ja,lt,pa,so,th,uk,pt,sr-LA,tl,ht,hmn"
          input-path: "AccountsFrontend/public/locales" #path used as example only. 
          output-path: "AccountsFrontend/public/locales" #path used as example only. 
```

Commit message:

add notes about restructure-files input.

README.md, after:

# localizejs-github-action

A Github Actions integration for Localize.js; use it to push the primary string file for your project and to pull your translated files.

## Inputs

## Input file
This action uses the LocalizeJS cli application which requires the input file to be named `language_code.json`. 

## `localize-api-key`

**Required** The Localize.js account API key

## `localize-project-id`

**Required** ID for the Localize.js project to translate

## `file-format`

The file format to use in all push and pull actions
Default: "SIMPLE_JSON"
Options:

- ANDROID_XML
- CSV
- GETTEXT_PO
- JSON
- IOS_STRINGS
- IOS_STRINGSDICT
- PO
- RESX
- SIMPLE_JSON (Works with i18next. Not supported by all project types.)
- XLIFF
- XML
- YAML
- YML

## `action`

**Required** The action to peform-- either 'push' or 'pull'

## `type`

The type of translation-- either 'phrase' or 'glossary'
Default: 'phrase'

## `langauges`

**Required** A comma separated list of desired langages. Langauges must first be enabled in the LocalizeJS project.

## `input-path`

**Required** The path to the input file. EG `AccountsFrontend/public/locales`. Path must be a folder containing a file named `en.json`

## `output-path`

**Required** The path to the desired output location. Should be a directory without the end slash. EG `AccountsFrontend/public/locales`

## `restructure-files`

If true output files will be moved and renamed to the file structure expected by i18next. Input file will be copied instead of moved. If this option is used the input file should be maintained by developers while the copied version of the input file should be used by code. 

 EG `{output-path}/{language_code}/translations.json`

## Example usage

## Daily fetch workflow

```yml
name: Localization - Fetch strings
on:
  schedule:
    # * is a special character in YAML so you have to quote this string
    - cron: "0 0 * * *"
  workflow_dispatch:
jobs:
  fetch:
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest
    steps:
      - uses: actions/checkout@v2
      - uses: submittable/localizejs-github-action/.github/actions/localize-push-pull@main
        with:
          localize-api-key: ${{ secrets.LOCALIZE_API_KEY }}
          localize-project-id: [your-project-id]
          file-format: "SIMPLE_JSON"
          action: "pull"
          languages: "fr,es,haw,am,de,ru,cs,el,he,hu,km-KH,ko,lo,pl,vi,zh,zh-TW,ar,bs,fr-CA,hi,id,it,ja,lt,pa,so,th,uk,pt,sr-LA,tl,ht,hmn"
          input-path: "[path to the directory containing your input file]" # directory must contain en.json
          output-path: "[desired output path]" # path to directory without end slash. EG: `account-name/strings`
          restructure-files: true
      - name: Get current date
        id: date
        run: echo "::set-output name=date::$(date +'%Y-%m-%d')"
      - uses: gr2m/create-or-update-pull-request-action@v1
        env:
          GITHUB_TOKEN: ${{ secrets.GITHUB_TOKEN }}
        with:
          title: Localization string updates - ${{ steps.date.outputs.date }}
          body: Please review the updated string values, approve, and merge the PR.
          branch: localization-updates-${{ steps.date.outputs.date }}
          author: "github-actions[bot] <41898282+github-actions[bot]@users.noreply.github.com>"
          path: "strings/"
          commit-message: "Updating localized strings with new translations from Localize.js"
          labels: localization
```

## Example publish workflow

```yml
name: LocalizationPublishStrings
on:
  push:
    branches: [main]
  # Allows you to run this workflow manually from the Actions tab
  workflow_dispatch:
jobs:
  publish:
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest
    steps:
      - uses: actions/checkout@v2
      - uses: submittable/localizejs-github-action/.github/actions/localize-push-pull@main
        with:
          localize-api-key: ${{ secrets.LOCALIZE_API_KEY }}
          localize-project-id: [your-project-id]
          file-format: "SIMPLE_JSON"
          action: "push"
          languages: "fr,es,haw,am,de,ru,cs,el,he,hu,km-KH,ko,lo,pl,vi,zh,zh-TW,ar,bs,fr-CA,hi,id,it,ja,lt,pa,so,th,uk,pt,sr-LA,tl,ht,hmn"
          input-path: "AccountsFrontend/public/locales" #path used as example only. 
          output-path: "AccountsFrontend/public/locales" #path used as example only. 
```
